README.md, before:

# Lightning Scavenger Hunt

The goal of this project is to get familiar with the basic operation of
a lightning node. To do this, you will spin up your own lightning node, 
open a channel and pay the invoice that you have been assigned.

## January 2024 Cohort Details

We will use *two* signet lightning nodes for this assignment, called `lnd0` and 
`lnd1`. The connection details for each node is provided below.

### LND0

Lightning node P2P address: `35.209.148.157:9735`

Lightning node pubkey: `0324b10f41493935f35cd3b4c1131c94e8f83bfe66c6ebf842790e59e182076d30`

### LND1

Lightning node P2P address: `35.209.148.157:9736`

Lightning node pubkey: `0325ecd6d2d8739681e2f7644f4221ed942b76d6b7825d4e730671ad17fb0d50e5`


## Node setup

You will need to update your `bitcoind` node's config with some extra 
options for lightning - see [bitcoin.conf](/conf/bitcoin.conf). 
Bitcoind must be built *with ZMQ enabled* for this config to work.

Next, spin up a lightning node to pay your invoice. There is a sample 
config for [LND](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd) available - 
see [lnd.conf](/conf/lnd.conf), you can use the following command to 
point lnd to this config file: 

`lnd --configfile={PATH TO lnd.conf}`

If you run into problems starting your node, the [LND community slack](https://lightning.engineering/slack.html)
beginner-questions channel is a good place to ask setup questions. 

## Fund your Lightning Node

You already have a wallet on our signet! For this project you will import
your private keys into Bitcoin Core so you can fund your lightning node.

You should already have Bitcoin Core running and synced on our signet with the
configuration file we provided.

1. Start your node

```sh
bitcoind -signet
```

2. Create a new wallet

Use the wallet name we provided you from the signet wallet challenge.

Example, if your wallet was `wallet_000`:

```sh
bitcoin-cli -signet createwallet wallet_000
```

3. Import your wallet descriptor

You have received a descriptor that looks something like this:

`wpkh(tprv8ZgxMBicQKsPeL511efCQGDW1hocWZj4abUE9vG58f3dxtC21e5Q3P123hCZRUd5b4byF7R72WoJSKDvf6vJPu14Au96M2ygkCLm1bSLhj1/84h/1h/0h/0/*)#ua9ymdwq`

You will execute the `importdescriptors` command with a JSON object 
that contains your descriptor and some important metadata:

```sh
bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet=wallet_000 importdescriptors \
 '[{"desc":"wpkh(tprv8ZgxMBicQKsPeL511efCQGDW1hocWZj4abUE9vG58f3dxtC21e5Q3P123hCZRUd5b4byF7R72WoJSKDvf6vJPu14Au96M2ygkCLm1bSLhj1/84h/1h/0h/0/*)#ua9ymdwq", "timestamp":1, "active":true}]'
```

`"timestamp": 1` Will tell Bitcoin Core to rescan the entire blockchain 
to recover your wallet state.

`"active": true` Means that Bitcoin Core will use this descriptor to 
create new addresses.

4. Fund your lightning node!

Once you have an on-chain deposit address from LND you can send signet 
BTC to it like this:

```sh
bitcoin-cli -signet -named -rpcwallet=wallet_000 sendtoaddress \
 address="tb1q7xn9m2cas7xq4czh5hfucxmax86ff4m5pj7ce8" amount=0.01 fee_rate=1
```

## Assignment Tasks

Note: you will need to open two channels to complete these tasks. We
recommend 50,000 satoshis per channel.

### 1. Pay your Invoice

Use your lightning node to pay the invoice belonging to `lnd0` that you have 
been assigned for task one, found by looking up your wallet number in 
[test/001-invoice_list.txt](test/001-invoice_list.txt). The string starting 
`lntbs` is your payment request.

The basic steps that you will need to follow are: 
* Open an unannounced channel to `lnd0`.
* Use your lightning node's cli to pay the invoice
* Submit the invoice's preimage

#### Solution Deliverables

Once you have successfully paid your invoice, you should submit the 
following in the [submissions](/submissions) directory:
* `001-preimage.txt`: enter your hex encoded invoice preimage.

### 2. Gossip Network Lookup

Write a bash script that looks up the base fee rate a node advertises in its
forwarding policy for a channel. The lightning node public key and the channel 
id will be provided as variables in the submission template. The script should 
print the base fee expressed in millisatoshis to stdout.

The script must use the `lncli` command included in the template script to make
LND calls. Do not assume that the `lnd` node you are running commands on is a 
participant in the channel you are looking up.

#### Solution Deliverables

* `002.sh`: submit your bash script in the [submissions](/submissions) folder.

### 3. Custom Route Payment

Use your lightning node to pay an invoice over a custom route. The signet 
nodes provided are connected with a channel: `lnd0 --- lnd1`.

Your task is to send a payment over the following route: 
`your node --- lnd1 --- lnd0`.

As in task 1, the invoice belongs to `lnd0`, and is found by looking up your 
wallet number in [test/003-invoice_list.txt](test/003-invoice_list.txt).

To do this, you will need to: 
* Open an unannounced channel to `lnd1`.
* Use `lncli` to send your payment over a custom route.

Note: if you accidentally pay your invoice over the wrong route, please request
a new one! 

#### Solution Deliverables

Once you have successfully completed your custom route payment, submit the 
following in the [submissions](/submissions) directory:
* `003-paymenthash.txt`: the hex encoded payment hash of your payment.

## Admin Infrastructure

**Students do not need to read this section.**

<details>
    <summary>Setup Assignments</summary>

This assignment requires two LND nodes, running on signet that are connected 
with a large channel. They will be referred to as `lnd0` and `lnd1`, and sample 
config files are provided [here](/conf).

Steps to set up:
* Run `lnd0`: `lnd --n=signet`
* Run `lnd1`: `lnd -n=signet --lnddir=.lnd1`
* Fund each node with coins and mine 6 blocks to make the funds available. 
* Open a channel from `lnd1` to `lnd0` using [channel-setup.sh](./channel-setup.sh).
* Mine 6 blocks to confirm the channel.
* Open ports `9735` and `9736` so that students can connect to LND.
* Open port `10009` so that the CI can check values on `lnd0`.
* Use `lnd0/1 getinfo` to provide the public key and IP address of each node 
  in the section above.

### Assignment 1

Assignment Setup:
* Use [invoice-setup.sh](./invoice-setup.sh) to create invoices for each 
  student: `./invoice-setup.sh {number of students}`
* Copy the output of this script into `test/001-invoice_list.txt` to provide the 
  autograder with value to check student solutions against.

### Assignment 2

Assignment Setup:
* Use [policy-setup.sh](./policy-setup.sh) to set a custom channel policy 
  once the channel has confirmed.

### Assignment 3

Assignment Setup - Create Invoices:
* Use [invoice-setup.sh](./invoice-setup.sh) to create invoices for each 
  student: `./invoice-setup.sh {number of students}`
* Copy the output of this script into `test/003-invoice_list.txt` to provide the 
  autograder with value to check student solutions against.

Assignment Setup - CI Checks: 
* Copy the following artifacts for `lnd0` to allow the CI query it:
  * `tls.cert` -> [test/lnd0-tls.cert](./test/lnd0-tls.cert).
  * `/data/chain/bitcoin/signet/readonly.macaroon` -> [test/lnd0-readonly.macaroon](./test/lnd0-readonly.macaroon)


Note: It is possible that many student attempts may unbalance the channel you 
open (ie, `lnd1` runs out of liquidity to send to `lnd0`). If students 
complain about `TEMPORARY_CHANNEL_FAILURE` check up on your nodes and re-run 
[channel-setup.sh](./channel-setup.sh) if necessary.

</details>

Commit message:

multi: clarify use of $lncli and explain use of hash in Q3

README.md, after:

# Lightning Scavenger Hunt

The goal of this project is to get familiar with the basic operation of
a lightning node. To do this, you will spin up your own lightning node, 
open a channel and pay the invoice that you have been assigned.

## January 2024 Cohort Details

We will use *two* signet lightning nodes for this assignment, called `lnd0` and 
`lnd1`. The connection details for each node is provided below.

### LND0

Lightning node P2P address: `35.209.148.157:9735`

Lightning node pubkey: `0324b10f41493935f35cd3b4c1131c94e8f83bfe66c6ebf842790e59e182076d30`

### LND1

Lightning node P2P address: `35.209.148.157:9736`

Lightning node pubkey: `0325ecd6d2d8739681e2f7644f4221ed942b76d6b7825d4e730671ad17fb0d50e5`


## Node setup

You will need to update your `bitcoind` node's config with some extra 
options for lightning - see [bitcoin.conf](/conf/bitcoin.conf). 
Bitcoind must be built *with ZMQ enabled* for this config to work.

Next, spin up a lightning node to pay your invoice. There is a sample 
config for [LND](https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lnd) available - 
see [lnd.conf](/conf/lnd.conf), you can use the following command to 
point lnd to this config file: 

`lnd --configfile={PATH TO lnd.conf}`

If you run into problems starting your node, the [LND community slack](https://lightning.engineering/slack.html)
beginner-questions channel is a good place to ask setup questions. 

## Fund your Lightning Node

You already have a wallet on our signet! For this project you will import
your private keys into Bitcoin Core so you can fund your lightning node.

You should already have Bitcoin Core running and synced on our signet with the
configuration file we provided.

1. Start your node

```sh
bitcoind -signet
```

2. Create a new wallet

Use the wallet name we provided you from the signet wallet challenge.

Example, if your wallet was `wallet_000`:

```sh
bitcoin-cli -signet createwallet wallet_000
```

3. Import your wallet descriptor

You have received a descriptor that looks something like this:

`wpkh(tprv8ZgxMBicQKsPeL511efCQGDW1hocWZj4abUE9vG58f3dxtC21e5Q3P123hCZRUd5b4byF7R72WoJSKDvf6vJPu14Au96M2ygkCLm1bSLhj1/84h/1h/0h/0/*)#ua9ymdwq`

You will execute the `importdescriptors` command with a JSON object 
that contains your descriptor and some important metadata:

```sh
bitcoin-cli -signet -rpcwallet=wallet_000 importdescriptors \
 '[{"desc":"wpkh(tprv8ZgxMBicQKsPeL511efCQGDW1hocWZj4abUE9vG58f3dxtC21e5Q3P123hCZRUd5b4byF7R72WoJSKDvf6vJPu14Au96M2ygkCLm1bSLhj1/84h/1h/0h/0/*)#ua9ymdwq", "timestamp":1, "active":true}]'
```

`"timestamp": 1` Will tell Bitcoin Core to rescan the entire blockchain 
to recover your wallet state.

`"active": true` Means that Bitcoin Core will use this descriptor to 
create new addresses.

4. Fund your lightning node!

Once you have an on-chain deposit address from LND you can send signet 
BTC to it like this:

```sh
bitcoin-cli -signet -named -rpcwallet=wallet_000 sendtoaddress \
 address="tb1q7xn9m2cas7xq4czh5hfucxmax86ff4m5pj7ce8" amount=0.01 fee_rate=1
```

## Assignment Tasks

Note: you will need to open two channels to complete these tasks. We
recommend 50,000 satoshis per channel.

### 1. Pay your Invoice

Use your lightning node to pay the invoice belonging to `lnd0` that you have 
been assigned for task one, found by looking up your wallet number in 
[test/001-invoice_list.txt](test/001-invoice_list.txt). The string starting 
`lntbs` is your payment request.

The basic steps that you will need to follow are: 
* Open an unannounced channel to `lnd0`.
* Use your lightning node's cli to pay the invoice
* Submit the invoice's preimage

#### Solution Deliverables

Once you have successfully paid your invoice, you should submit the 
following in the [submissions](/submissions) directory:
* `001-preimage.txt`: enter your hex encoded invoice preimage.

### 2. Gossip Network Lookup

Write a bash script that looks up the base fee rate a node advertises in its
forwarding policy for a channel. The lightning node public key and the channel 
id will be provided as variables in the submission template. The script should 
print the base fee expressed in millisatoshis to stdout.

The script must use the `lncli` command included in the template script to make
LND calls. Do not assume that the `lnd` node you are running commands on is a 
participant in the channel you are looking up.

#### Solution Deliverables

* `002.sh`: submit your bash script in the [submissions](/submissions) folder.

### 3. Custom Route Payment

Use your lightning node to pay an invoice over a custom route. The signet 
nodes provided are connected with a channel: `lnd0 --- lnd1`.

Your task is to send a payment over the following route: 
`your node --- lnd1 --- lnd0`.

As in task 1, the invoice belongs to `lnd0`, and is found by looking up your 
wallet number in [test/003-invoice_list.txt](test/003-invoice_list.txt).

To do this, you will need to: 
* Open an unannounced channel to `lnd1`.
* Use `lncli` to send your payment over a custom route.

Note: if you accidentally pay your invoice over the wrong route, please request
a new one! 

#### Solution Deliverables

Once you have successfully completed your custom route payment, submit the 
following in the [submissions](/submissions) directory:
* `003-paymenthash.txt`: the hex encoded payment hash of your payment.

Note: you need to submit the payment hash (not the preimage), which is used
to check whether the payment has propagated along the correct route.

## Admin Infrastructure

**Students do not need to read this section.**

<details>
    <summary>Setup Assignments</summary>

This assignment requires two LND nodes, running on signet that are connected 
with a large channel. They will be referred to as `lnd0` and `lnd1`, and sample 
config files are provided [here](/conf).

Steps to set up:
* Run `lnd0`: `lnd --n=signet`
* Run `lnd1`: `lnd -n=signet --lnddir=.lnd1`
* Fund each node with coins and mine 6 blocks to make the funds available. 
* Open a channel from `lnd1` to `lnd0` using [channel-setup.sh](./channel-setup.sh).
* Mine 6 blocks to confirm the channel.
* Open ports `9735` and `9736` so that students can connect to LND.
* Open port `10009` so that the CI can check values on `lnd0`.
* Use `lnd0/1 getinfo` to provide the public key and IP address of each node 
  in the section above.

### Assignment 1

Assignment Setup:
* Use [invoice-setup.sh](./invoice-setup.sh) to create invoices for each 
  student: `./invoice-setup.sh {number of students}`
* Copy the output of this script into `test/001-invoice_list.txt` to provide the 
  autograder with value to check student solutions against.

### Assignment 2

Assignment Setup:
* Use [policy-setup.sh](./policy-setup.sh) to set a custom channel policy 
  once the channel has confirmed.

### Assignment 3

Assignment Setup - Create Invoices:
* Use [invoice-setup.sh](./invoice-setup.sh) to create invoices for each 
  student: `./invoice-setup.sh {number of students}`
* Copy the output of this script into `test/003-invoice_list.txt` to provide the 
  autograder with value to check student solutions against.

Assignment Setup - CI Checks: 
* Copy the following artifacts for `lnd0` to allow the CI query it:
  * `tls.cert` -> [test/lnd0-tls.cert](./test/lnd0-tls.cert).
  * `/data/chain/bitcoin/signet/readonly.macaroon` -> [test/lnd0-readonly.macaroon](./test/lnd0-readonly.macaroon)


Note: It is possible that many student attempts may unbalance the channel you 
open (ie, `lnd1` runs out of liquidity to send to `lnd0`). If students 
complain about `TEMPORARY_CHANNEL_FAILURE` check up on your nodes and re-run 
[channel-setup.sh](./channel-setup.sh) if necessary.

</details>
